We literally had to bring the weights of
the the model physically into their
supercomput.
>> In San Francisco, you could take a car
from one part of SF to the other fully
autonomously. As opposed to the digital
world, I can't book a ticket online
right now. Physical autonomy is ahead of
digital autonomy in 2025.
>> I think AI agents are like really in day
one here. Like Chad GBT only came out in
2022. The slope, I think, is incredibly
steep.
>> I actually do think self-driving cars
have a good amount of scaffolding in the
world. You have roads. Roads exist.
They're pretty standardized. You have
stop AI agents are just kind of dropped
in the middle of nowhere.
>> We'll start with long short game.
>> I'm short on the entire category of like
tooling eval products. Healthcare is
probably the industry that will benefit
the most from AI. I think I'm a JPEL.
>> You're definitely a pill. The first one
was the realization in 2023 that I would
never need to code manually like ever
ever again.
Hey folks, I'm Apur Vagraval and today
at the OpenAI office we had a
wide-ranging conversation about OpenAI's
work in enterprise. I have with me the
head of engineering and head of product
of the OpenAI platform, Sherwin Wu and
Olivia Goodman. OpenAI is well known as
the creator of Chad GPT which is a
product that billions across the world
have come to love and enjoy. But today
we dive into the other side of the
business which is OpenAI's work in
enterprise. We go deep into their work
with specific customers and how OpenAI
is transforming large and important
industries like healthcare,
telecommunications, and national
security research. We also talk about
Shervin and Olivia's outlook on the next
what's next in AI, what's next in
technology, and their picks both on the
long and short side. This was a lot of
fun to do. I hope you really enjoy it.
Well, two worldclass builders, two
people who make look building easy.
Shervin uh my paler 2013 classmate
tennis buddy with two stops at Kora and
open door through the IPO before joining
openAI before Chad GPT you've now been
here for three years and lead
engineering for all open platform
Olivier former entrepreneur winner of
the golden llama at stripe where you
were for just under a decade
>> and now lead all of the product at uh
open air platform
>> that's right
>> thanks for doing it
>> thank you thanks for having us
>> you know as shareholder as a thought
partner kicking ideas back and forth. I
always learn a lot from you guys and so
it's a treat. It's a real treat to be do
this for everybody. You know, I'll open
with people know OpenAI as the firm that
build chat GPT the product that they
have in their pocket that comes with
them every day to work to personal
lives. But the focus for today is OpenAI
for enterprise. You guys lead open
platform. Tell us about it. What's
underneath the OpenAI platform for B2B
for enterprise?
Yeah. So this is actually a really
interesting question too because when I
joined OpenAI around three years ago to
work on the API, it was actually the
only product that we had. So I think a
lot of people actually forget this where
the original product for uh from OpenAI
actually was not chat GBT. It was a B2B
product. It was uh the API. We were
catering towards developers.
>> Um and so I've actually seen you know
the launch of chat GBT and and all of
you everything downstream from that. Um
but at its core I actually think the the
reason why we have a platform and why we
started with an API is it kind of comes
back to the openi mission. So our our
mission obviously is to build AGI uh
which is pretty hard in and of itself
but also to distribute the benefits of
it to everyone uh in the world to all of
humanity. Um and you know it's pretty
clear right now to see Chad GGBT doing
that because you know my mom you know
maybe even your parents are using TAGBT
but um we actually view our platform and
especially our API and how we work with
our customers our enterprise customers
as our way of getting the benefits of
AGI of of AI to as many people as
possible to everyone in every corner of
the world.
>> Uh chat GPT obviously is really really
really big now. It's I think like the
fifth largest website in the world. Um
but we actually by working through
developers using our API we're actually
able to reach even more uh people and
you know every corner of the world in
every different use case that you might
have uh and especially with some of our
enterprise customers we're able to reach
even uh use cases within businesses and
reach end users of those businesses as
well. And so we actually view the the
platform as kind of our way of fully
expressing our our mission of getting
the the benefits of AGI to to to
everyone. And so um concretely though
what the platform actually includes
today.
>> Um the biggest product that we have is
is obviously um our developer platform
which is our our API um you know many
developers the you know the majority of
of the startup ecosystem builds on top
of this as well as a lot of start uh
digital natives uh fortune 500
enterprises at this point.
>> Um we also have a product that we sell
to governments um as well in the public
sector. So that's all part of this as
well. Um and also an emerging product
line for us in the platform is our
enterprise products. So what we actually
might sell directly to uh enterprises
beyond just a core API offering.
>> Fascinating.
>> And maybe to to to double down like um I
think B2B is actually quite core to the
open air mission.
>> What we mean by distributing AI benefits
is you know I want to live in a world
where you know there are like 10x more
medicines like you know going out every
year. I want to live in a world where
you know education like you know public
service civil service you know are like
you know increasingly like optimized you
know to everyone and you know there are
like a large like category of use cases
that only go through B2B frankly unless
you enable like the enterprises and you
know we talked about palenteer I think
that's probably the same fees at
palenteer
>> it's like hey like those are the
businesses who are actually like you
know making stuff happen in the real
world and so if you do enable them if
you do accelerate them like that's how
essentially you benefit you know to
distribute AGI.
>> Yeah. Well, maybe we can double click
into that, Olivia. You know, the reach
for chat is obviously wide.
>> Yeah.
>> Billions of users, but for enterprise,
it's maybe tell us about it. Maybe we go
deep into a customer example or two. And
what is an organization that we've
helped uh transform maybe uh and at what
layers?
>> So, if I were to step back like we
started our B2B efforts with the API
like a few years ago. M
>> initially the customers were startups,
developers, indie hackers, extremely
technically sophisticated people like
you know who are building like you know
cool new stuff essentially and taking
massive like you know market technical
risk. Um, so we still have a bunch of
customers in that category and we love
them. Um, and we keep building with
them.
>> On top of that, you know, over the past
couple of days, we've been working one
more with traditional like enterprises
and also like digital natives. Um,
essentially I think basically everyone
woke up like with like um those models
are working there is a ton of value and
they could see essentially many use
cases in enterprise. Um, couple of
examples which I like the most. Um, one
which is very both fresh and you know
it's quite cool. Um we've been working a
lot with T-Mobile.
>> T-Mobile.
>> Um so T-Mobile leading like US t
operator.
>> Um T-Mobile has like you know a massive
customer support load
>> like you know people asking like you
know hey I was charged like that amount
of money what's going on or you know my
my cell phone like isn't working
anymore.
>> Um a massive like you know um share of
that load is like you know voice calls
like people want to talk to someone. Um,
and so for them like you know to be able
to essentially automate like more and
more and you know to help like people
like self-s serve in a way like you know
um debug their their subscription was
pretty big. And so we've been working
with T-Mobile pretty much for the past
year at that point to basically automate
like not only like text support but also
voice support. And so today like you
know there are like features like in the
T-Mobile app that if you call actually
handled by open air you know models
behind the scenes and you know it does
sound like super natural like you know
human sounding latency quality wise. So
that one was um really fun.
>> A second one uh which is
>> just on that can I can I ask you a
follow-up question? So, we've got text
models, we've got voice models, maybe
even video models someday that are
deployed at T-Mobile.
>> But what above the models or or or or
adjacent to the models might we have
helped T-Mobile with for example?
>> Yeah, there is a tongue we're doing. Um
the first one is you know you have to
put yourself in the shoes of an
enterprise buyer like their goal is to
automate you know or reduce like you
know optimize customer support
>> and you know going from like a model
like tokens in tokens out to that use
case it's hard and so you know first
like there's a lot of design like you
know system design
>> um we do have actually now forward
deployed engineers who are helping us
quite a bit
>> forward deployed engineers familiar to
the
>> borrow the term from palunteer um yeah
it's a great term
>> were you at palunteer
>> I was not an FD I was on I think they
called it the dev side, right? It's like
software engineering. I al also only in
internet at Palunteer. Um but yeah, it's
a great term. I think it accurately
describes what we're asking folks to do
which is like embed very deeply with
customers and and honestly like build
things specific to their systems.
They're deployed uh onto these
customers.
>> Um but yeah, we are obviously growing
and hiring that team quite a bit because
they've been very effective like
T-Mobile.
>> Yeah.
>> For years of my life.
>> Yeah. Forward deployed.
>> Yeah.
>> But but go ahead. So forward deployed
engineering
>> for engineers and the sort of like
systems and like integrations they're
doing is you know first like you know
you have to orchestrate those models
like those models are not just you know
those models like know nothing about
like you know the CRM like you know and
like what's going on and so you have to
plug the model to like many tools many
of those like tools like in the
enterprise do not even have like APIs or
like clean interfaces right it's the
first time they'll be exposed like you
know to a third party system and so
there's a lot of you know standing up
like you know API gateways tools
connecting.
>> Um, then you have to essentially like
define what good looks like,
>> you know.
Like, you know, defining like a golden
set of evals
>> is, you know, easier than it sound.
>> Um, harder than it sounds.
>> Um, and so we've been spending like a
bunch of time with them.
>> Evals are important.
>> Eval are super important,
>> especially like audio evals. I know
audio emails are like extra hard to
grade and and get right and but like the
bulk of the use case here is actually
audio and you have like I don't know
five minute like call transcript how do
you actually know that the right thing
happened? It's a pretty tough problem.
>> Yeah, it's pretty tough.
>> Um and then you know actually nailing
down like the quality of the customer
experience like you know until it feels
natural and here latency and
interruptions play a really like you
know important part. We shipped um in G
um an API, a real built- API.
>> I think it was last week.
>> Couple last week.
>> Yeah,
>> it was just last week I think
>> which is like a beautiful work of
engineering. Uh you know there was a
really cracked team behind the scenes.
Um which basically allows us like to get
like the most like natural sounding like
you know voice experience without having
like these weird interruptions on your
lag where you can feel that essentially
the thing is off. Mhm.
>> Um so yeah, cobbling all that together,
you know, and you get like, you know, a
really good experience.
>> Yeah, that's a lot more than just
models.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I was going to say um uh one
actually really great thing that I think
we've gotten from the T-Mobile
experience is actually working with them
to improve our models themselves. So for
example, the last uh real time the real
time GA last last week. We obviously
released a new snapshot, the GA
snapshot. Uh and a lot of what the
improvements that we actually got into
the model came out of, you know, the
learnings that we had from T-Mobile. It
brings in a lot of other change from
other customers, but because we were so
deeply embedded into T-Mobile and and we
were able to understand what good looks
like for them, we were able to bring
that to some of our models.
>> That makes sense. So, this is a large
customer with tens of millions of users,
if not hundreds of millions, and the
before and after is on the support side,
both tech support internally and then
their customer support.
>> Yeah,
>> makes sense.
>> Yeah.
>> Is there another one that you guys can
share?
>> I like a lot uh am
the healthare business. Yeah. M
>> so we working quite a bit with healthare
companies
is one of the leading like healthare
companies who specialized into drugs for
um uh cancer or like you know
inflammatory diseases they're based out
of of LA um and we've been working
essentially with Abent to essentially
speed up like the drug like development
and likeation process
>> so you know the the sort of the the
northstar is like pretty bold um and
it's really interesting like when you
similarly like you know we embedded
pretty deeply with Amjen to understand
what are their needs
>> and it's really interesting like when I
look at those healthcare companies I
feel like there are two big buckets of
needs
>> one is like pure R&D it's like you know
you're seeing like a massive amount of
data and like you have super smart
scientists who are trying to you know
combine test out things you know so
that's one bucket a second bucket is
like you know much more like you know
common across other industries it's like
pure like you know admin document
authoring documents reviewing work which
is you know by the time like your R&D
team has essentially locked the recipe
of a medication. Getting that medication
to market is a ton of work. Like you
have to submit to like various
regulatory bodies, get a ton of reviews.
And you know when we looked at
essentially those problems, what we
knew, what models were capable of, we
saw like you know a ton of benefits, a
ton of like opportunities to automate
and you know augment essentially the
work of those teams. Um and so yeah has
been like a top customer of DP5 for
instance.
>> Wow. I mean this could be hundreds of
millions of lives if a new drug is
developed faster.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Huge impact. So that's you know that's I
think one good example of like a kind of
impact on which you need to enable
enterprises like to do it right you know
uh and so I think we're going to do more
and more of those uh and yeah frankly
like you know on a personal level like
it's a delight you know if I can play
like you know a tiny role essentially
like doubling like you know the kind of
medication that people you know get in
the real world that feels like you know
a pretty good like you know achievement
>> huge huge huge I know you had one as
well
>> yeah so one of my favorite deployments
that we've done uh more recently
actually is with the Los Alamos National
Labs. So this is the the the like
government national research lab that uh
the US government is running in Los
Alamos, New Mexico. It's also where you
know the Manhattan project happened uh
back in the 40s and 50s
>> um back when it was a secret secret
project. So you know after that they
ended up formalizing it as a city and a
program and then now it's a pretty
sizable national uh laboratory. Um this
one is is very interesting because one
just the depth of impact here is is like
unimaginable for me. It's like on the
scale of of of Amgen and and some of
these other uh uh larger companies, but
you know, obviously they're doing a lot
of actual new research there. So, a lot
of new science. They're doing a lot of
stuff with uh our uh defense department
uh and defense use cases as well. So,
very intense, you know, very intense
stuff.
>> Um but the other thing that was actually
very interesting about this one was that
it's it's a it's also a story of a very
like bespoke and like new type of
deployment that we've done. Yeah.
>> Um, so because they are so they're
government lab, they're so, you know,
uh, restrictive and high security and
high clearance with a lot of their
things, we couldn't just do a normal
deployment with them. They couldn't, you
know, you can't have people doing
national security research just hitting
our, uh, our APIs. And so, um, we
actually did a custom on-prem deployment
with them onto one of their
supercomputers called, uh, Bonado. M um
and so this actually involves a bunch of
you know uh very bespoke work with some
FTDEs also with a lot of our developer
team um to actually bring one of our
reasoning models 03 um into their
laboratory into an airgapped you know
supercomputer of an autoado and actually
deploy it and get it installed to work
on their hardware on their networking
stack um uh and uh and actually run it
in this in this particular environment.
And so it it was actually very
interesting because we literally had to
bring the weights of the the model
physically into their uh into their
supercomput um in an environment by the
way where you're not allowed to have you
know it's very it's very locked down for
good reason. Um you're not allowed to
have like cell phones or like any
electronics with you um as well. And so
I think that was a very very unique
challenge. Um and then uh the other
interesting thing about this deployment
is just how it's being used right. So um
the interesting thing is because it's so
uh locked down and on prem we actually
do not have much visibility into exactly
what they're what they're doing with it.
But we do have you know they give us
feedback. Yeah. Yeah. Um they actually
do have some telemetry but it's you know
within their own their own systems. But
we do know that it's it's it's you know
being used for uh a bunch of different
things. It's being used for aiding them
in in terms of speeding up their
experiments. They have a lot of data
analysis use cases, a lot of notebooks
that they're running with reams of data
that they're trying to process. um
they're actually using it as a thought
partner which is something that's pretty
interesting to me. Um 03 is like pretty
smart uh as a as a model and a lot of
these people are tackling really tough
you know novel research problems and a
lot of times they're kind of using 03 um
and uh going back and forth with it on
their experiment design on like what
they actually should be using it for.
>> Um uh which is you know something that
we couldn't really say about our our our
older models.
>> Um and so yeah it's it's just being used
by by um for a lot of different use
cases for the for the national lab. And
um the other cool thing is it's actually
being shared between Los Alamos and some
of the other labs, Lawrence Livermore,
Sandia as well because it it's the
supercomputer setup where they can all
kind of uh connect with it remotely.
>> Fascinating. I mean we've just gone
through three pretty large scale
enterprise deployments, right, which
might touch tens if not hundreds of
millions of people. But there was this
on the other side of this is the MIT
report that came out a couple of weeks
ago. 95% of AI deployments don't work a
bunch of you know scary headlines that
even shook the markets for a couple days
like you know put this in perspective
like like for every deployment that
works there presumably a bunch that
don't work so maybe we can you know
maybe talk about that like what does it
take to build a successful enterprise
deployment a successful customer
deployment
um and and and the counterfactual uh
based on all your experience serving all
these large enterprises
>> I think at that point I may have worked
start with like a couple of hundreds I
think enterprises.
>> So, okay, I'm going to pattern match.
Um, what I've seen being like clear
leading indicator of success.
>> Uh, number one is like the the
interesting combination of like top down
like buy in and like enabling like you
know
>> very clear group of like a tiger team
essentially like you know the enterprise
which is sometime a mix of like open AI
like you know enterprise employee. So
you know typically like you know you
take like T-Mobile like the top
leadership was like extremely like you
know it's a priority right but then
letting the team like you know organize
and be like okay if you want to start
small start small you know and then we
can scale it up essentially.
>> So that would be part number one. So top
down buying and a bottom called a tiger
team. tiger team, you know, of people
like, you know, a mix of like technical
skills and like people who just have
like the organizational knowledge, like
institutional knowledge, you know,
>> it's really funny like in the enterprise
like customer support example like what
we found is that
>> the vast majority of the knowledge
>> is in people's heads.
>> Right.
>> Right. Which is probably like a thing
that you know with these like in general
but like you know you take a customer
support you would think that you know
everything is like perfectly documented
like GI etc. The reality is like the the
standard like operating procedures like
the SOPs are largely in people said and
so unless you have that tiger team like
mix of like technical and like you know
subject matter expert really hard like
to get something off the ground
>> that would be one.
>> Um two would be evals first like
whenever we define like good evals like
that gives like a clearly clear common
goal for people to hit whenever like you
know the customer like fails to come up
with good evals it's a moving target you
never know essentially you know if
you've made it or not. Um, and you know,
evals are much harder than what it looks
uh to get done.
>> And eval also oftentimes need to come up
bottom up, right? Because all of these
things are kind of in people's heads in
the actual operator's heads. Like it's
actually very hard to have a top down
mandate of like
>> you got like this is how the eval should
look. A lot of it needs the bottoms up
adoption,
>> right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so we've been
building quite a bit of tooling on
evals. We have like an product and you
know we're working on more to
essentially solve like you know that
problem or you know make it as easy as
we can. Um the last thing is you know
you want to hill climb essentially you
have your evals the goal is to get to
99%. you start at like you know 46 uh
you know how do you get there and here
frankly I think often time like you know
a mix of like
>> like I will say like almost wisdom from
people who've done it before like you
know a lot of that is like you know like
art sometime more than science and like
you know knowing like the quirks of the
model the behavior sometime we even need
to fine-tune ourselves the models you
know when there are some clear
limitation
>> uh and you know being patient getting
your way you know up there
>> and then you ship.
>> Can we go under the hood a little bit?
You know, one of the things that we
think about a lot is autonomy more
broadly, right? What is the makeup of
autonomy on one side? You know, in San
Francisco, you could take a car from one
part of SF to the other fully
autonomously. No humans involved. No,
you press a button,
>> right? They've done billions of rides. I
think it was like what three and a half
billion rides
>> um on on the test. This is on the Tesla
FSD. Ido's done like million tens of
millions of rides.
>> That's a lot of autonomy.
>> Yeah. in the physical world as opposed
to the digital world. I can't book a
ticket online right now. It's there's
all sorts of problems that happen if I
have my operator try to book a ticket.
And it's very counterintuitive because
the bar for physical safety is so much
higher. The bar for physical safety is
higher than the human's capability
because lives are at stake.
>> Yeah.
>> The bar for digital safety not that high
because all you're going to lose is
money. Nobody's life is at stake. But
yet physical autonomy is ahead of
digital autonomy in 2025. What seems
counterintuitive? Like why is that the
case at you know at a technical level?
Why is it that what should sound easier
is actually a lot harder?
>> Yeah. So I I think there there are kind
of two things at play here and I really
like the analogy with with self-driving
cars cuz you know they they've been
they've actually been like one of the
best applications of AI I think that
I've I've used recently.
>> Um but I think there are two things in
play. One of them is honestly just the
timelines. Like we've been working on
self-driving cars for so long. Like I
remember when I you know back in like
2014 it was kind of like the the advent
of this and everyone was like oh it's
happening in like 5 years.
>> Turns out it took like I don't know 10
15 years or so for this happen. So
there's been a long time for this
technology to to really mature and I
think there was probably like dark ages
you know back in like 2015 or 2018 or
something where it felt like it wasn't
going to happen.
>> Trough of disillusionment.
>> Yes. Yes. Yeah. And then now we're you
know um finally seeing it get deployed
um which is really exciting but it has
been like I don't know 10 years maybe
even 20 years from the very beginning of
the research whereas uh I think AI
agents are like really in day one here
like chat GBT only came out in 2022
uh so like around three like less than
three years ago. Um, but I actually
think the what we think about with uh AI
agents and all that really I think
started uh with the reasoning paradigm
that uh when we released the the O1
preview model back in
>> uh LA late last year I think. Uh and so
I actually think this whole reasoning
paradigm with AI agents and the
robustness that those bring has only
really unfolded for like a year less
than a year really. And so, um, I I know
you had a chart in your blog post which
I really like, which, you know, the
slope is very meaningfully different
now. Like, self-driving started very,
very early. Slope seems to be a little
bit slower, but now it's reaching the
promised land, but man, like we we
started super recently with AI agents,
and the slope, I think, is incredibly
steep, and we'll probably see it cross
over at some point.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, but uh uh uh we really have only had
like a year really to explore these uh
>> Do you think we haven't crossed over
already? When you look at like the
coding work in particular?
>> Yeah, it's it's a good point. It's like
you know your chart actually shows uh AI
agents is below self-driving but like
you know like what is the y- axis like
by some measures like I would not be
surprised actually if you know AI
products or agent products is making
more revenue than whimo at this point
like who is making a lot but like just
look at all the startups coming up look
at you know chat GPT and how many
subscriptions are happening there and
all of that and so maybe we have
actually crossed and you know couple
years from now it's going to look very
very different
>> yeah the y-axis is tangible felt
autonomy
>> perfectly objective
[Laughter]
How do I feel about
>> exactly vibes more than revenue? But
revenue is a good one. We should
probably redo that with revenue.
>> The um there's a second thing I wanted
to uh mention on on this as well, which
is uh the scaffolding and the
environment in which these things
operate in. So um I actually remember in
the early days of self-driving a lot of
the like researchers around self-driving
where saying that the roads themselves
will have to like change to accommodate
self-driving, right? There might be like
sensors everywhere so that the
self-driving cars can interact with it.
Um, which I think is like, you know,
retrospect overkill. Um, but I actually
do think self-driving cars have a good
amount of scaffolding in the world for
them to operate in. It's like not
completely like unlimited.
>> Um, you have roads. Roads exist. They're
pretty standardized. You have stop
lights. People generally uh operate in
like pretty normal ways. Um, and there
are all these traffic laws that that you
can learn. Um, whereas um uh AI agents
are just kind of dropped in the middle
of nowhere and they kind of have to feel
fill around for them. And I actually
think, you know, going off of what
Olivier just said too, my hunch is some
of the um uh enterprise deployments that
don't actually work out likely don't
have the scaffolding or infrastructure
for these agents to interact with as
well. Um a lot of the like really
successful deployments that we've made,
a lot of what our FDS end up doing with
some of these customers is to create um
almost like a platform or some type of
scaffolding, connectors, organizing the
data so that the models have something
that they can interact with in a more
standardized way. M
>> and so my sense is self-driving cars
actually have had this uh in in in some
degree with with roads over the last uh
uh you know over the course of their
deployment but I actually think it's
still very early in the AI agents uh
space and I would not be surprised if a
lot of these uh a lot of enterprises a
lot of companies just don't really have
the scaffolding ready. So if you drop an
AI agent in there it kind of doesn't
really know what to do and and its
impact will be limited. And so I think
once this scaffolding gets built out uh
across some of these companies I think
the deployment will also speed up.
>> Um but again to our point earlier I
think there's no slowdown. Uh there's
no, you know, things are still moving
very fast.
>> That's great. Well, you know, I've
thought about autonomy as a three-part
structure. You've got perception, you've
got the the reasoning, the brain, and
then you've got the call it the
scaffolding, the last mile of making
things work. Uh maybe we can dive into
the second part, which is the reasoning,
which is the the the juice that you guys
are building with GPD5 most recently.
Huge endeavor. Congrats. the first time
you guys have launched a full system,
not a model or a set of models, but a
full system. Talk about that. I mean,
the full arc of that development, what
was your focus? I mean, honestly, the
benchmarks all seem so saturated. Like,
clearly, it was more than just
benchmarks that you were focused on. And
so, what was a northstar? Like, tell us
about GP5 soup to nuts.
>> It's been the work of love of many
people for a long time.
>> Um, and to your point, I think GP5 is
amazingly intelligent. you look at the
benchmark like you know the sweep bench
and the likes you know it is going
pretty high but I think to me equally
important and impactful was I would say
the craft like the style the tone the
behavior of the model so you know
capabilities intelligence and you know
behavior of the model
>> um on the behavior of the model I think
it's the first model like large model
release for which we have worked so
closely with a bunch of customers for
like month and month
>> essentially to better understand like
what are the concrete like locks like
what are the concrete blockers of the
model and often like you know it's not
about like you know um like having a
model which is way more intelligent a
model which is faster a model that
better like follows instruction a model
like who is more likely to say no you
know when you know he doesn't know about
something um and so that like super
close like you know customer feedback
loop on DP5 was pretty impressive to uh
to to see and I think like all the love
that DP5 has been getting like you know
in the past like couple of weeks I think
people are starting to feel that
essentially the builders and once you
see it like it's really hard to come
back to a model which is like extremely
intelligent but not you know an
exclusively like academic essentially
way
>> are there tradeoffs that you made as you
were going through it like maybe what
are the hardest trade-offs you made as
you were building GPD5
>> I actually think a very clear trade-off
which I I honestly think we are still
iterating on is uh the trade-off between
the reasoning tokens and how long it
thinks versus uh performance
performance.
>> Um because and I honestly this is
something that I think we've been
>> um working on with our customers since
the launch of the reasoning models which
is these models are so so smart.
>> Uh
>> uh especially if you give it all this
like thinking time. Um I I I think the
the feedback I've been seeing around
GPD5 Pro has been pretty crazy too. It's
just like like you know these tweet last
night.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I saw that Sam retweeted it.
Um
>> uh but like these like unsolved problems
that none of the other models could
handle. you throw it to GPT5 Pro and
>> uh it just like oneshots it is is pretty
crazy. But the trade-off here is you're
you're you're waiting for 10 minutes. Uh
it's quite a long time.
>> And so these things just get like so
smart with with um uh with more
inference time. But on the like product
builder, on the API side for some of
these like business use cases, I think
it's pretty tough to like you know
manage that trade-off. And for us it's
been difficult to figure out where to
where we want to fall on that spectrum.
So, we've had to make some trade-offs on
like how much should the model think
versus like how intelligent should it
get because as a product builder there's
a latency there's a real latency
trade-off that you have to deal with
where you know your user might not be
happy waiting 10 minutes for like the
best answer in the world. You might be
more okay with the substandard answer
and like no wait at all.
>> Yeah. I mean even between GBD5 and GBD5
thinking I have to toggle it now because
sometimes I'm so impatient I just want
it ASAP.
>> Yeah. I think there's ability to skip,
right, in in GCP where it's like I'm
impatient. I just want the the more
simple answer.
>> That's right. That's right. Well, four
weeks in GBD5, how's the feedback?
>> Yeah, I I think the feedback has been
very positive. Uh especially on the
platform side, which uh have been really
great to see. I think um a lot of the
the things that Olivier mentioned have
been, you know, come up in feedback from
customers.
>> Um the model is extremely good at
coding. Um extremely good at at kind of
like reasoning through through different
tasks. M
>> um but especially for like coding use
cases, it especially at the uh you know
at the when it thinks for a while it'll
usually solve problems that no other
models can solve. So I think that's been
a big uh positive point of feedback.
>> Um the kind of robustness and the
reduction in hallucinations has been a
really big uh positive feedback.
>> Um uh I I think there was an evol that
showed that hallucinations basically
went to zero for a lot of this. It's not
perfect. There's still a lot of work to
be done, but
>> that's a big one. Um I think because of
the reasoning in there too, it just
makes uh the model more likely to say
no, less likely to hallucinate um
answer. So that's been something that
people have really liked as well. Other
bit of feedback uh has been around
instruction following. So it's really
good at instruction following. This
almost bleeds into like the constructive
feedback that we're working on where he
for that it's so good at construction
following that instruction following
that people need to tweak their prompts
or it's almost like too literal uh in in
>> that's one is an interesting trade-off
actually cuz you know when you ask
people developers like what do you want
like you want them all to follow
instructions of course you know but once
you have a model which who is like that
is like you know extremely literal
essentially then essentially forces you
to express extremely clearly what you
want otherwise the model you know may go
sideways and so that one was interesting
feedback
>> it's almost like the monkey paw where
it's like developers and and platform
customers ask for better instruction
following so we're like yes we'll give
you really good instruction following
but it was like you know follows it
almost to a to a te and so it's
obviously something that the the the
team is actually working working through
I think a good example this by the way
is um some customers would have these
prompts I remember when we were testing
GPD5 one of the uh negative feedback
that we got was the model was too
concise we were like what's going on why
is the model so concise and then we
realized it was because they were
reusing their old prompts from other
models
>> and with the other models they have to
like you have to really beg the model to
be prec concise. So they're like 10
lines of like be concise, really be
concise,
>> also keep your answer short. Um, and it
turns out when you give that to GBD5,
it's like oh my gosh, this person really
wants to be concise. And so the response
would be like one sentence, which is two
tur. And so just by removing the extra
prompts around being concise, the model
behaved in a much better way uh and a
much closer to what they actually end up
wanting.
>> Yeah. Turns out writing the right prompt
is still important.
>> Yes. Yes. Yeah. Prompt engineering is
still very very important.
>> Yeah.
um on constructive feedback effort GBD5
um there's actually been a good amount
as well which we're all we're all
working through. One of them that I
think is uh I'm really excited um for
for the next uh you know snapshot to
come out to to fix some of this is code
quality and like small like code uh like
paradigms or like uh idioms that they
might use. I think there were like
feedback around um the types of code and
and and the patterns in which it was
using which I think we're working
through
>> uh as well. Um and then uh the the other
bit of feedback which uh I think we've
already made good progress on internally
uh is around the trade-off of the
reasoning tokens and thinking and
latency around intelligence. I think
especially for these simpler problems,
you don't usually need a lot of
thinking. The thinking should ideally be
a little bit more dynamic.
>> Um and of course we're always trying to
squeeze as much reasoning and
performance into as little reasoning
tokens as possible. So I'd imagine that
that curve kind of going down as well.
>> Yeah. Well, huge congrats. I mean it's
been I know it's a work in motion for a
bunch of our companies. They've had
incredible outcomes with GPD5. One of
them is Expo uh cyber security business.
Just like a
>> Yeah, I saw the chart from that. It was
pretty crazy.
>> Huge huge upgrade from whatever they
were using prior to that. And
>> I think they're going to need a new eval
soon.
>> They're going to need a new eval. It's
all about eval on on the multimodality
side of it. Obviously, you guys
announced the real time API last week.
Uh I saw T-Mobile was one of the
featured customers on there.
uh talk about that like how obviously
the text models are leading the pack but
then we got audio and we got video.
>> Yeah.
>> Talk about the progress on the
multi-odal
models. Uh when should we expect to have
like the next big unlock and what would
that look like?
>> Uh it's a good question. Um the teams
have been making amazing progress on
multimodality on voice image video.
Frankly the last generation models have
been unlocking like quite a few cool use
cases. M
>> um one of the feedback that we've
received is you know because like text
was so much leading the pack on
intelligence like people felt like in
part on voice that the model was
somewhat a little less intelligent and
you know until you actually see it like
it does feel weird like you know to have
like you know to have a better answer
like on text versus voice
>> and so that's pretty much a focus that
we have at the moment
>> um I think we like filled like part of
that gap but not the full gap for sure.
So I think you know catching up I would
say you know with the text like you know
would be one.
>> Um a second one you know which is
absolutely fascinating is
>> the model is like excellent at the
moment on like you know
>> easy like casual conversation like talk
to your coach your therapist
>> and we basically had to teach the model
like to um speak essentially better like
in actual like you know work
economically valuable setups. Give an
example like the model has to be able to
understand what an SSN is and you know
what does it mean to spell SSN and if
one digit is actually like you know
fuzzy it should actually has to repeat
versus you know guess you know there are
lots of like you know intrusions like
that that someone you know of course has
you know of voice that we are currently
like teaching the model and that's like
an ongoing work actually with our
customers you know until we actually
confront the model to like actual like
customer support calls actual set school
it's really hard like to get a feel you
know for those gaps so that's um a top
like you know priority as well.
>> This is uh completely off script but an
interesting question that comes up in
voice models particularly the real-time
API is you know previously people were
doing they would take in a speech input
convert that to text
>> then have some layer of intelligence.
>> Yeah.
>> Then you would have a texttospech model
that would sort of play it back.
>> Yeah.
>> And this would be it would be a stitch
of these three parts. But the real time
API you guys have integrated all of
that. Yes. And h you know how does it
happen because a lot of the logic is
written in in text a lot of the boolean
logic or you call it any function
calling is written in text. How how does
it work with the real time API is that
>> that's an excellent question. Um so the
reason why we ship the real time API is
that we saw that for the stitch model
>> the stitch model. Yeah, they're stitched
like a stitch together like speech to
text thinking text to speech
>> like we saw essentially a couple of
issues. One slowness like you know hops
essentially
>> two loss of signal like you know across
each model like the speech text model is
less intelligent.
>> Yeah. You lose emotion you accent.
>> Exactly. Right. Pauses. Yeah. And you
know when you when you are doing like
actual voice like phone like calls
essentially like those signals are like
so important like for decent to them.
>> Um one of the challenge that we have is
what you mentioned which is you know it
means like a slightly different
architecture essentially for text versus
voice
>> and so that's something that we actively
working on. Uh but I think it was the
right call to start essentially with
let's make like the voice experience
like natural sounding to a point where
essentially you're feeling comfortable
like putting in production and then
working backward like to unify like the
sort of the orchestration logic
essentially across modalities
>> and and to be clear like a lot of
customers still stitch these together.
It's like kind of what worked in the
last generation. But what we're
increasingly seeing is more and more
customers moving towards the real-time
approach because of how natural it
sounds, how much lower latency it is,
especially as we uple the intelligence
>> of the model. Uh but also even like
taking a step back, I will say it's like
pretty mind-blowing to me that it works.
Like the fact that like I think it's
mind-blowing that these LM work at all
where you just train on a bunch of text
and it's just, you know, autogressively
coming up with the next token and it
sounds super intelligent. That's like
mindblowing in and of itself, but I
think it's actually even more
mind-blowing that this speech to speech
setup actually works correctly because
you're literally taking the audio bits
from it from someone speaking
>> streaming or putting it into the the
model and then it's generating audio
bits back. And so, uh, to me, it's
actually crazy that this works at all,
let alone the fact that it can
understand accents and tone and pauses
and things like that and then also be
intelligent enough to handle a support
call or something.
>> I mean, if you've gone from text in,
text out to voice in voice out, that's
pretty crazy.
>> Yeah. Yeah,
>> we have a bunch of companies in our
portfolio that are using these models.
You know, Parlo on the customer support
side, LiveKit on the infra side, and
>> you know, there's a bunch of use cases
we're starting to see that that that a
speechtoech model could could address.
Obviously, a lot of the
>> harder ones still still running on what
you're calling the stitch model.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh but I I I hope the day is not far
when it's all on real time API.
>> It's going to happen at some point.
>> Right. Right. Right. Right. And actually
maybe that's a good segue into talking
about model customization because I
suspect that you have such a wide
variety of enterprise customers. I think
you mentioned what hundreds of customers
or or or maybe more. Um each of them has
a different use case, a different
problem set, a different call it
envelope of of of parameters that
they're working in. Maybe latency, maybe
maybe power, maybe others. How do you
how do you handle that? Talk about what
OpenAI offers enterprises who need a
customized version of of of a great
model to make it great for them. Yeah.
So model customization has actually been
something that we've invested very
deeply in on the API platform since the
very beginning. So even you know uh
pre-hatbt days we actually had a
supervised fine-tuning uh API available
and people were actually using it to
great effect. Um, the most exciting
thing actually I'd say around model
customization, it obviously resonates
quite well with customers because they
want to be able to uh bring in your own
custom data and create your own custom
version of you know 03 or 04 mini or
something um or GBD5 even um uh suited
to their own needs.
>> Um it's very attractive but the the most
recent development I think is very
exciting is has been the introduction of
reinforcement fine-tuning which is
something we announced uh late last year
I think in the 12 days of Christmas.
We've g it since
>> and we're continuing to iterate on it.
>> What What is it? Break it down for us.
>> Yeah. So, it's called It's actually
funny. I I I think we we made up the
term reinforcement finetuning. It's like
not a real uh thing until until we
>> It's stuck now. I stuck on Twitter all
the time.
>> I remember we were discussing it and I
was like I I don't know about RP.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, reinforce and
fine-tuning. Um so, it really uh it's
introducing uh reinforcement learning
into the fine-tuning process. So um the
original um fine-tuning API uh does
something called supervised fine-tuning.
We call it SFT. Um it is not using
reinforcement learning. It is um you
know it's it's it's using supervised
learning.
>> Um and so what that usually means is you
need a bunch of data, a bunch of prompt
completion pairs. You need to really
supervise and tell exactly the model how
to how it should be acting and then when
you train it on on our finetuning API,
it moves it closer in that direction.
Reinforcement fine-tuning introduces re
like RL or reinforcement learning to the
loop. way more complex, way more
finicky, but an order of magnitude more
powerful. And so, um, that's actually
what's really resonated with a lot of
our customers. It allows you to if you
use RFT, the the discussion is less of
like creating a custom model that's
specific to your own use case. It is you
can actually use your own data and
actually crank the RL uh uh yeah, turn
the crank on RL to actually create a
like best-in-class model for your own
particular use case.
>> And so, that's kind of the the main
difference here. Um, with RFT, the data
set looks a little bit different.
Instead of, you know, prompt completion
pairs, you really need a set of tasks
that are very gradable. You need a
grader that is very objective that you
can use here as well. Uh, and so that's
actually been something that we've
invested a lot in over the last year.
And, um, we've actually seen a couple a
good number of customers get really good
results on this. We've talked about a
couple of them across different
verticals. So, Rogo, um, which is a
startup in the, um, financial services
space, um, they have a very, you know,
sophisticated AI team. I think they
hired some folks from DeepMind um to to
run their AI program and they've used
been using RFT uh to get best-in-class
results on you know parsing through
financial documents answering questions
around it and and doing tasks around
that as well.
>> Um there's another uh uh startup called
Accordance that's doing this in the tax
space. I think they they've been
targeting um an eval called tax bench uh
which looks at you know CPA style tasks
as well and because they because you
know they're able to turn it into a very
gradable setup um they're actually able
to turn the RFT crank and also get I
think like soda results on a tax bench
just using our RF uh uh product as well
and so um it has kind of shifted the the
discussion away from just customizing
something for your own use case to like
really leveraging your own data to
create a best-in-class maybe best in the
world model for uh something that you
care about for your business.
>> Yeah. I feel like the the base models
are getting so good at instruction
following
>> that for you know
>> behavior like steering like you know you
don't need to find tune at that point
like you know you can describe what you
want and is pretty good at it
>> but pushing the frontier on like actual
capabilities my hunch is that RF will
pretty much become the norm like you
know if you are actually pushing in your
field like you know intelligence like
you know to a pretty high point
>> like at some point like you know you
need to RL essentially with custom
environments.
>> Yeah.
>> Fascinating.
>> And even going back to the point earlier
around like top down versus bottoms up
for some of these enterprises, a lot of
the data that you end up needing for RFT
to require like very intricate knowledge
about the exact task that you're doing
and understanding how to grade it. Uh
and so a lot of that actually comes from
bottoms up. Like a lot I know a lot of
these startups will work with experts in
their field to try and get the right
tasks and um um get the right feedback
to craft some of these data sets.
Without further ado, we're going to jump
into my favorite section, which is a
rapidfire question. We had a lot of
great uh friends of ours send in some
questions for you guys. Okay.
>> We'll start with Ultimator's favorite
game, which is a long short game.
>> Mhm.
>> Pick a business, an idea, a startup that
you're long
>> and the same short that you would bet
against that there's more hype than
there is reality. Uh, whoever's ready to
go first, long short.
>> My long is actually not in the AI space,
so this is going to be slightly
different. Um there uh my short is
though in the in the AI uh space. So um
I'm actually extremely long uh esports
and so uh what I mean by esports is the
entire like professional gaming industry
that's emerging around video games.
>> Um very near and dear to my heart. I
play a lot of video games and so I watch
a lot of this. So um obviously I'm
pretty in the weeds on this. Um but I
actually think there's incredible
untapped potential in esports and
incredible growth to be had in this
area. Um so concretely what I mean are
like you know a really big uh one is uh
League of Legends. all of the games that
Riot Games puts out, they actually have
their own professional leagues. Uh they
actually have professional uh
tournaments. Uh believe it or not, they
rent out stadiums actually now.
>> Um but I just think it's like if you
look at kind of what the youth and like
what younger kids are looking and where
their time is going, it's predominantly
going towards these things. They spend a
lot of time on video games.
>> They watch more sports and like soccer,
basketball, you know.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. A growing
number of these too. Um I've actually
been to some of these uh events and it's
very interesting.
Yeah. Yeah. I'm extremely long and
stuff. Um uh and
>> and so they're booking out stadiums for
people to go watch electronic sports.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's uh I literally
went to Oracle Arena, the old Warrior
Stadium to watch one of these I think uh
before CO. Um and then the So it's just
Wow. That's 5 years ago.
>> So I actually I've been following this
for a while and I actually think it had
a really big moment in CO like everyone
was playing video games and I think it's
kind of like come back down. So I think
it's like undervalued, you know, it's
like I think no one's really
appreciating it now, but it has all the
elements to like really really take off.
>> Um, and so the youth are doing it. The
other thing I'd say is it is huge in
Asia, like absolutely massive in Asia.
Um, it is absolutely big in uh Korea, in
China as well. Like you know, we rented
out Oracle Arena, I think, or like the
the event I went to was an Oracle Arena.
My sense is in Asia, they rent out like
the entire stadiums, like the soccer
stadiums, and the players are already
like celebrities. So anyways, um you
know, as like you know, the I know like
Korean culture is really making its way
into the US as well. I think that's
another tailwind for this whole thing.
But anyways, esports, I think is
something you should keep an eye out on
because uh uh there's a lot of room for
growth.
>> Very unexpected.
>> Yeah,
>> good to hear. Short
>> uh my short my short's a little spicy.
Um which is I'm short on uh the entire
category of like tooling uh around AI uh
AI products. Uh and so this this
encapsulates a lot of different things.
kind of cheating because some of these,
you know, I think are starting to play
out already. But, um, I think like two
years ago it was maybe like Eval's
products or like frameworks or vector
stores. I'm pretty sure those
>> I think nowadays there's a lot of um
additional uh excitement around other uh
tooling around AI models. So, uh RL
environments I think are really big
right now as well. Unfortunately, I'm
very short on those. Um not really
>> uh I don't really see a lot of uh
potential there. see a lot of potential
in and reinforcement learning and
applying it but I think the startup uh
uh space around our own environments I
think is really tough.
>> Um main main thing is is one it's just a
very competitive space. There's just a
lot of people kind of operating in and
then two
>> um if the last two years have shown us
anything the space is evolving so
quickly and it's so difficult to try and
like adapt and make and understand what
the exact stack is that will really you
know
>> uh uh carry through to the next
generation of models. I think that just
makes it very difficult when you're when
you're in the tooling space because you
know today's really hot framework or
really hot hot tool might just not get
used in the next generation of models.
>> So I I've been noticing like the same
pattern which is the the teams that
>> build like breakout like startups in AI
are extremely pragmatic
>> pragmatic
>> like they're not super like you know
intellectual about like the perfect
world etc. And it's funny because I feel
like you know our generation has
basically started in tech in a very like
stable like you know moment where you
know technology had been building up
like you know for years and years with
like SAS like cloud etc. And so we were
in a way like raised like you know in
that very stable moment where it makes
sense at that point to you know design
like very like you know good like
abstractions and toolings because you
know you have a sense where it's going
>> but it's so different today like no one
quite knows what's going to happen next
year or two. So it's almost impossible
like to define like the perfect tooling
and platform.
>> Right. Right. Right. Right. Well, that's
uh there's a lot of that going around
right now.
>> Yes.
>> Um spicy. A lot of homework there. Uh
Olivia, over to you, sir. Long short.
>> Long short.
>> I've been thinking a lot about education
for the past month. Uh in the context of
kids,
>> um
>> I'm pretty short on any education, which
basically emphasizes human memorization
at that point. And I say that having
mostly been through the education
myself. But you know like I learned so
much on like you know history facts like
you know legal things that are um you
know some of it like does shape your way
of thinking. A lot of it frankly is just
like you know knowledge tokens
essentially and those knowledge tokens
you know it turns out like you know LM
are pretty good at it.
>> Um so I'm I'm quite short on that.
>> That's right. You won't need memory when
strategy is bionic. You can just think
about straight into your head.
>> Exactly. Exactly. What am I long at? Um,
frankly, I think
healthcare is probably the industry that
will benefit the most from AI in the
next like year or two.
>> I would say more.
>> I think like all the ingredients are
here for a perfect storm.
>> Mhm.
>> Um, an huge amount of like structured
and structured data, you know, it's
basically the heart of, you know,
>> like the the pharma companies. Uh, the
malls are excellent at digesting,
processing that kind of data.
uh a huge amount of like admin like you
know heavy like documents heavy like you
know culture but at the same time like
companies which are very technical very
R&D friendly like you know companies
like you know who's like sort of
technology in a way at the heart of what
they do and so yeah I'm pretty bullish
on the health
>> this is like life sciences so you mean
life sciences research organizations
that are producing drugs
>> gotcha exactly yeah got
>> yeah it's almost like you know over the
last 20 30 years these these like pharma
or like biotech companies have have
basically if you look at the work that
they're doing like only a small amount
of it is is actual research and so much
of it ends up being admin and like you
know documents and and things like that
and that area is just so ripe for you
know something to happen with AI and I
think that's what we're seeing with
Amgen and some of these other customers
and it's also like not what they want to
do it's I think it's good that we have
some regulations there obviously but
like just means that they have like
reams and reams of things to kind of go
through
>> and so
>> you know like when you have a technology
that's able to really help like bring
down the the cost of something like
that. I think it'll just you know tear
right through it
>> and I think once governments and like
you know institutions are going to
realize that like if you step back like
it is probably one of the biggest
bottleneck to like human progress right
>> you step back in the past decade like
you know how many like true like
breakthrough drugs have there been like
you know not that many like you know how
life would be different like if you
double that rate essentially so once you
realize what stakes yeah my hunch is
that we're going to see quite a bit of
momentum in that space. Wow. All right.
Lots of homework there as well.
>> Yeah.
>> Next one. Favorite underrated AI tool
other than chat GPT. Maybe
>> I love granola.
>> Oh man, you love so much granola. Like
um
>> two votes for granola.
>> There is something like Yeah.
>> Hey, what about chat GPT record?
>> I like to record as well. But um there
are some features in granola which I
think are really done well
>> like the whole like you know integration
with your Google calendar is excellent.
>> Yeah. Um and just you know the quality
of like the transcription and like the
summary is pretty good.
>> Do you just have it on because I know
your calendar is back to back. You just
have granola on.
>> So the funny thing is that I don't use
granola internally. Uh I use for my
personal life mostly.
>> I see. Yeah. I see. On dates. I'm
joking.
>> I'll say yeah granola is actually going
to be mine. So two votes for granola. Um
I was going to say the easy answer for
me is CEX. Uh as a software engineer
it's just like so it's gotten so good
recently. Codex Cly especially with GPT5
especially for me I tend to be less
timesensitive about like uh you know the
iteration loop with with coding and so
leaning into GPD5 on Codex I think has
been really really
>> what about Codex has changed because you
know Codex has also been through a
journey Codex has been around for a bit
I remember like it's been launched for
like a more than over a year ago like
what's what's changed about Codex
has been around for a bit
>> I feel like it's been less than a year
for Codex
>> few months I would say
>> the time dilation is so crazy in this
the old it feels like it's been around
forever.
>> A year ago with GPT4 like you remember
that demo like that feels like ages ago.
>> One hadn't even come out yet. 12 days of
Christmas hadn't happened yet.
>> The voice demo is
>> there's a naming thing. Okay. But
anyway,
>> oh there was a Codex model.
>> That's what I'm thinking about.
>> There was a Codex model.
>> We are. Yeah, we are. You're not you're
not to blame for that confusion.
>> Also, I think the the GitHub thing was
called Codex as well. Yes. Yes, that's
right. But I'm talking about our uh
coding product within Chad GBT which is
the Codex cloud offering and then also
Codex Cly. So actually maybe if I were
to narrow my answer a little bit more to
Codex Clyde which I've I've really
really liked. I like the local
environment setup.
>> Um the thing that's actually made it
really useful in the last I'd say like
month or so is uh one I think the team
has done a really good job of just like
>> getting rid of all the paper cuts like
the small product polish and like paper
cut things. It just is it kind of feels
like a joy to use now. It feels more
reactive.
>> Uh and then uh the second thing honestly
is is GPD5. Like I I just think GPD5
really allows the product to shine. Um
it's you know at the end of the day this
is kind of a this is a product that
really is dependent on the model
underlying model and when you have to
you know like iterate and go back and
forth with model like four or five times
to get it right to get it to like you
know do the change that you want
>> versus having it think a little bit
longer and it just like one shots and
does exactly what you want to do. You
get this like weird like bionic feeling
where you're like I feel so mind-melded
with the model right now and like
perfectly understands what I'm doing.
And so getting like that kind of like
dopamine hit and like feedback loop
constantly with codeex has made it kind
of like an indispensable thing that I
really really like.
>> Nice.
>> Um and the other thing I'd say Codex is
just really good for me is um so I use
it in my for like personal projects. Um
I also use it to like help me understand
code bases like as a as a um engineering
manager. Now I'm not as in the weeds on
uh uh on the actual code. And so you're
actually able to use codeex to really
understand what's happening with the
codebase. um have it like an ask
questions and have it answer about uh
things and really catch you up to speed
on things as well. So like even the
non-coding use cases are really useful
with Codex Clay.
>> Fascinating. Sam had this tweet about
Codex um usage uh ripping I think like
yesterday. So I wonder uh what's going
on there. But you're uh you're not
alone.
>> Yeah, I think I think I'm not alone.
Just judging from the Twitter feedback,
I think people are really realizing how
great of a combination Codex client and
GPT5 are. Um, yeah, I know that team is
undergoing a lot of scaling challenges,
but I mean it the system hasn't gone
down for me, so props to them. Um, but
we are in a GPU crunch, so we'll see
how, you know, how long that goes.
>> Awesome. Awesome.
>> All right, the next one. Um, will there
be more software engineers in 10 years
or less?
There's about what
>> professional software engineers?
>> That's what you mean? Like full-time
like actual jobs?
>> Yeah. Yeah. cuz this is a hard one cuz
like I think without a doubt there's
going to be a lot more software
engineering going on.
>> Yes, of course.
>> There's actually a really great post
that was shared I think in our internal
Slack. It was like a Reddit post
recently. I actually think that
highlights this.
>> Um it was a really touching story. It
was a Reddit post about someone who has
a brother who's non-verbal. I actually
don't know if you saw this. It was just
posted.
>> Um it's a person on Reddit posted. They
have a non-verbal brother who they have
to take care of. the brother like they
tried all these types of things to help
the brother interact with the world use
computers but like vision tracking
didn't work cuz I think his vision
wasn't good um all the tools didn't work
and then uh this brother um uh ended up
using chat GBT I don't think he used
Codex but he used chat GBT and basically
taught himself how to create a set of
tools that were tailor made to his
non-verbal brother
>> and basically a custom software
application just for them and because of
that he he now has this like custom
setup that was written by his brother
>> uh and allows him to like browse the
internet. I think the video was like him
watching the Simpsons or something like
that which is really touching.
>> But I think that's actually what we'll
see a lot more of. Like this guy's not a
professional software engineer. His
title is not software engineer.
>> But he like did a lot of software
engineering probably pretty good. Um
good enough definitely for his brother
to use. So the amount of code, the
amount of like building that that will
happen, I think is just going to go
through an incredible transformation,
>> right?
>> I'm not sure what that means for
software engineers like myself. Maybe
there's, you know, equivalent or maybe
there's more.
>> Yeah, more of me.
specific way,
>> but definitely a lot more software
engineering and a lot of
>> code. I buy that completely like I buy
completely a thesis that there is a
massive software shortage.
>> Yeah.
>> Like in the world like we've been sort
of accepting it, you know, for the past
20 years, but like the goal of software
was never to be that super rigid, super
hard to build, you know, uh artifact. It
was to be like, you know, customized,
like malleable. Uh and so I expect that
we'll see like way more a sort of a a
reconfiguration of like people's like
you know jobs in scale set where way
more people code like you know I expect
that product managers are going to code
like more and more for instance uh
>> yeah you made you made your PM's code
recently if you
>> oh yeah we did that that was really fun
uh we started like essentially not doing
like PRDS like product requirements
documents you know classic PM thing you
write like five pages like my product
does etc and you know PMs have been
basically v coding prototypes
And one it's pretty fast with GT5 and
like Codex
>> just a couple hours I think
>> fast and second like it sort of conveys
like so much more information than a
document
>> like you get a feel essentially for the
feature like write or not.
>> So yeah I expect that sort of you know
behavior we're going to see more and
more.
>> Yeah. Instead of writing English you can
actually now write the actual thing you
want.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And yeah, that's amazing.
Advice for high school students who are
just starting out their career.
>> My advice is
>> I don't know maybe it's evergreen like
>> prioritize
critical thinking above anything else.
>> If you go in a field which requires like
extremely high critical thinking like
you know skills I don't know math,
physics or you know maybe philosophies
in that bucket you will be fine
regardless. If you go in a field that
sort of turns down I think and again
gets back to like memorization like you
know pattern matching I think you will
probably be less future proof
>> as a you know uh
>> what's a good way to sharpen critical
thinking
>> um use EBT and have it test you
>> that's actually having like you know
worldass tutor
>> who essentially knows
>> how to put the bar like 20% of what you
can do all the time you know
>> uh is actually probably like a really
good way to do it.
>> Yeah. Nice. Anything from you, sir?
>> Um mine is I I think it's just I think
we're actually in such an interesting
like unique time period where um the
like younger So like maybe this is a
more general advice for not just like
high school students, but just like the
younger generation, maybe even like
college students. M
>> it's like uh I think the advice would be
don't underestimate how much of an
advantage you have relative to the rest
of the world right now because of how AI
native you might be or how like you know
in in the weeds of the tools you are
>> my hunch is like high schoolers college
students when they come into the
workplace they're going to have actually
a huge leg up on uh how to use AI tools
how to actually transform the workplace
and my push for like some of the younger
I guess high school students is like one
like just really immerse yourself in
this thing and then two just like really
take advantage of the fact that you're
you're in a unique time where like no
one else in the workforce really
understands these tools as deeply
probably as you do.
>> Um a good example of this is actually we
had our first intern class uh uh
recently at at at OpenAI. Um a lot of uh
software interns uh and some of them
were just like the most incredible
cursor power users I've like ever seen.
>> They were so productive. I was I was
shocked in a good way.
>> Yep. Yep. I was like yeah I know I know
we can get good interns but like I don't
know they'd be like this good. Um, and I
think part of it is like they've grown
up um, using these tools for better or
worse in college.
>> Um, but I think the meta level point is
they they're so like AI native and even
like I don't know me and Olivier, we're
like kind of AI native. We work at Open
AI but like we haven't like been steeped
in this and kind of grown up in this and
so uh, the advice here would just be
like yeah leverage that like you know
don't be afraid to kind of like go in
and spread this knowledge and take
advantage of it in the workplace because
it is a pretty big advantage for Yeah, I
can't remember who said this to us at
Palanter, but every intern class was
just getting faster, smarter, like
laptops, like smarter every generation.
>> You sure didn't peak in 2013 with, you
know, when I was an intern.
>> That's right. That's right.
>> He's a weird spike
in 2013. Yeah.
>> Two guys like 12 players.
>> That's right. That's right. That's
right.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, a lot's happened. You know, a
lot's happened since you guys joined
OpenAI, right? What? Three years and
almost three years. Um, in your OpenAI
journey, what has been the the rose
moment? Your favorite moment,
>> the bud moment where you're like most
excited about something, but but still
opportunity ahead
>> and the thorn toughest moment of your of
your of your uh three-ear journey.
>> The thorn is easy for me.
>> What we call the blip
>> which is you know the coup of the board
like that was a really tough moment.
Yeah, it's funny because you know after
the fact it actually reunited quite a
bit the company like there was a feeling
open had a pretty strong culture before
but you know there was a feeling of like
camaraderie essentially that was even
stronger
>> but you know sure like tough on the day
off
>> it's very rare to see that
anti-fragility most orgs after something
like that break break apart but I feel
like open got stronger open came back
>> it's a good point I feel it made open
stronger for real now essentially when I
look after the fact when I look at you
other like you know news like departures
or you know whatever like you know bad
news essentially
>> I feel the company has built like you
know a thicker skin and you know an
ability to like recover like way quicker
>> I actually think part I think it's
definitely right part of it too I think
is also just the culture I also think
this is why it was such a low point for
a lot of people so many people just at
open care so deeply about what we're
doing which is why they work so hard um
you just care a lot about the work it
almost feels like your life's work like
it's a very audacious mission and thing
that you're which is why I think the
blip was like so tough on a lot of
people, but also is what I think helped
bring people back together and why we
were able to hold together and and get
that that thick skin as well.
>> Yeah.
>> I have I have a separate uh worst moment
uh which was uh the big outage that we
had in uh December of last year if you
remember. Yeah, you remember? I do.
>> Uh it was like a multi-hour uh outage.
Um really highlighted to uh to us how uh
essential of almost like a utility the
API was. So, so the background is I
think we had like a like a 3 4 hour
outage sometime in
>> uh November or December last year.
>> Um really brutal pure zero. No one could
hit Chad GBT. No one could hit the APIs.
It was it was really really rough.
>> Um that was just really tough just from
a like
>> you know customer trust perspective. I
remember we like talked to a lot of our
customers to kind of like um postmorton
them on what happened and kind of our
plan moving forward. Thankfully, we
haven't had anything close to that uh
since then. And I've been actually
really happy with um all the investments
we've made in reliability over the last
uh six months. Um uh but uh in that
moment, I think it was really it was
really tough.
>> Yeah. On the happy side, like on the
roses, um
>> I think I have two of them. The first
one would be GPT5 was really good. like
the sprint up to GPT5 I think really
like you know
>> showed like the best of open AI like you
know having like cutting edge like
science research like you know extreme
like customer focus like you know
extreme like you know infrastructure and
inference like you know talent uh and
the fact that we were able like to ship
like such a big model and like scale it
to like you know many many many many
tokens you know per minute like almost
like immediately I think speaks to it.
So that one I really
>> no with no outages.
>> With no outages.
>> Yeah. Really good reliability. Yep.
>> Like I remember when we shipped like D4
Turbo like a year ago, a year and a half
ago, we were terrified by you know like
the influx of traffic and I feel we've
really gotten like much better at you
know shipping like those you know
massive updates.
>> Um the second uh rose like you know
happy moment for me would be the first
death day was really fun.
>> Yeah. It felt like a coming of age like
of open AI like you know we are
embracing that you know we have like a
huge community developers you know we
are going to ship models new products
and I remember basically seeing like you
know all my favorite people open eye or
not you know like you know essentially
nerding out on you know what are you
building like you know what's coming up
next it felt really like you know a
special moment uh in time. No, that was
actually going to be mine as well. So,
I'll just pay you back off of that,
which is the very first Dev Day, 2023.
Yeah. Uh, November. Uh, I actually I
remember it. So, I mean, obviously a lot
of good things have happened since then.
There was just a very I don't know why
for for me it was a very memorable
moment, which was
>> uh one uh it was actually quite a rush
up to dev day. We were we shipped a lot.
So, our team was just really really
sprinting. So, it was like this high,
you know, uh high stress environment
kind of going up. to add to that um you
know of course because we're openi we
did a live demo on Sam's and Sam's
keynote of all the stuff that we shipped
and I just remember being in the back of
the audience sitting with like the team
>> and like waiting for the demo to happen
once it finished happening we all just
like let out a huge sigh of relief like
oh my god thank you um
>> uh and so there's I think there's just
like a lot of like you know buildup to
it for me the most memorable thing was I
remember right after dev day all the
demos worked well all the talks worked
well we had the afterparty and then I
was just in a way driving home at night
with the music playing. It was just like
such a great end to the dub day. That
was that was what I remember. That was
my rose for the last uh last
>> That's awesome. I assume you guys are,
but please tell me if you're AGI pled.
Yes or no? And if so, what was the
moment that got you there? What was your
aha moment? When did you feel the AGI?
>> I think I'm AJ Peeled. I think I'm a
Jed.
>> You're definitely AGI pled.
>> I am. Okay.
>> Uh I've had a couple of them.
The first one was the realization in
2023 that I would never need to code
manually like ever ever again. Like I'm
not I'm not the best coder frankly you
know I chose my job like you know for a
reason.
>> Um but realizing that you know what I
thought was a given that we humans would
have like to write like basically
machine language like forever is
actually not a given and that you know
the pace of price is huge
>> feeling the AGI. Um the second like
field ai moment for me was uh maybe the
progress on voice and multiodality
>> like you know text like at some point
you get used to it like okay you know
the machine can write pretty good text.
Yeah, voice makes it real.
>> But once you start actually talking like
you know to something that really
understands your tone
>> like you know understand my accent like
in French um it felt like sort of a uh
moment like okay machines are going
beyond like cold mechanical
deterministic like you know like logic
to something like much more like
emotional and like you know tangible.
>> Yeah, that's a great one. Yeah, mine
mine are uh uh so I do think I'm I am a
GI pill. I probably gradually became a
GI pill over the last couple years. I
think there are two and and for me um
yeah, I think I I I actually get more
get more shocked from the text models. I
know the multimodal ones are are really
great as well. For me, I think they
actually line up with with two like
general breakthroughs. So
>> um the first one was right when I joined
the company in September 2022.
>> We it was pre-trib.
>> Yeah. 2 months ago. Um, but at the time
GPD4 already existed internally
>> and I think we were trying to figure out
how to deploy. I think Nick Turley's
talked about this a lot. Um,
>> the early days of chat GBT, but it was
the first time I talked to GPD4 and it
was it was like going from nothing to
GBD4 was just
>> the most mind-blowing experience for me.
I think for the rest of the world, maybe
going from nothing to GPD 3.5 in chat
was maybe the big one and then going
from 3.5 to 4. But for me and I think
for a lot of maybe some other people who
joined around that time going from
nothing to or or not nothing but like
what was publicly available at the time
but going from that to GBT4 was just
incredible. Like I just remember asking
throwing so many things at like there's
no way this thing is going to be able to
give an intelligible answer and it just
like knocks it out of the park. It was
it was absolutely incredible.
>> GPT4 was insane. I remember GPT4 came
out when I was interviewing with OpenAI
and I was still like on the phone and
should I Joshua join? I saw that thing.
I was like, "Okay." I mean, I mean,
guys, there's no way I can work on
anything else at that point.
>> Yep. Yep. Yep. Yeah. So, GBD, yeah, GBD4
was just crazy. Um, and then, uh, the
other one was, uh, like is the other
breakthrough, which is like the
reasoning paradigm. I actually think the
the purest repres representation of that
for for me was deep research. Uh, and
throwing like
>> like asking it to like really look up
things that I didn't think it would be
able to know and seeing it like think
through all of it, like be really
persistent with the search. uh get
really detailed with the write up and
all of that. That was pretty pretty
crazy. I don't remember the exact query
that I threw it, but I just remember
like I feel like the field AGI moments
for me are like I'll throw something at
the model that I I was like there's no
way this thing will be able to get and
then it just like knocks it out of the
park.
>> Like that is kind of the Philly AJI
moment. I definitely have that with Deep
Research with some of the things I was
asking it.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, this has been great. Thank you so
much folks. You guys are building the
future. You guys are inspiring us every
day and appreciate the conversation.
>> Yeah. Thank you so much.
Thank you.
[Music]
As a reminder to everybody, just our
opinions, not investment advice.